Newsletters: add 339 (2025-01-31) (#2148)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2025-01-31-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #339'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/01/31/
name: 2025-01-31-newsletter
slug: 2025-01-31-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **Vulnerability in LDK claim processing:** Matt Morehouse

>   [posted][morehouse ldkclaim] to Delving Bitcoin to disclose an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [posted][morehouse ldkclaim] to Delving Bitcoin to disclose a
```

  vulnerability affecting LDK that he [responsibly disclosed][topic
  responsible disclosures] and which was fixed in LDK version 0.1.  When
  a channel is unilaterally closed with multiple pending [HTLCs][topic
  htlc], LDK will attempt to resolve as many HTLCs as possible in the
  same transaction to save on transaction fees.  However, if the channel

>   counterparty is able confirm any of the batched HTLCs first, that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  counterparty can confirm any of the batched HTLCs first, that will
```
(or, if you want to stay with "is able", then change to "is able to")

  _conflict_ with the batch transaction and make it invalid.  In that
  case, LDK would correctly create an updated batch transaction with the
  conflict removed.  Unfortunately, if the counterparty's transaction
  conflicts with multiple separate batches, LDK would incorrectly only
  update the first batch.  The remaining batches would not be able to

>   confirm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be confirmed.
```
But I know in this knowledge domain, as written is _kind of_ okay, we speak like that ... but I still personally prefer "be confirmed" here.

>   Some HTLCs need to be resolved before a deadline or the counterparty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Some HTLCs need to be resolved before a deadline, or the counterparty
```

>   Some HTLCs need to be resolved before a deadline or the counterparty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Some HTLCs need to resolve before a deadline or the counterparty
```
Not completely sure about this suggestion, but less passive sounds better to me.

>   can steal back their funds.  The counterparty is prevented from
>   spending those HTLCs before the deadline by a [timelock][topic
>   timelocks].  Most older versions of LDK put those HTLCs in a separate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  can steal back their funds.  A [timelock][topic timelocks] prevents the counterparty from
  spending those HTLCs before the deadline.  Most older versions of LDK put those HTLCs in a separate
```

  batch that it was sure to confirm before the counterparty could

>   confirm a conflicting transaction, ensuring no funds could be stolen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  confirm a conflicting transaction, ensuring that no funds could be stolen.
```

  For HTLCs that didn't allow funds theft, but which the counterparty
  could resolve immediately, there was a risk that the counterparty
  could cause funds to become stuck.  Morehouse writes that this can be
  fixed by "upgrading to LDK version 0.1 and replaying the sequence of
  commitment and HTLC transactions that led to the lock up."

  However, the release candidate LDK 0.1-beta changed its logic (see
  [Newsletter #335][news335 ldk3340]) and began batching all types of
  HTLCs together, which could allow an attacker to create a conflict

>   with a timelocked HTLC.  If resolution of that HTLC remained stuck

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  with a timelocked HTLC.  If the resolution of that HTLC remained stuck
```

  after the timelock expired, theft was possible.  Upgrading to the

>   release version of LDK 0.1 also fixes this form of the vulnerability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  release version of LDK 0.1 also fixes this vulnerability.
```

Author: Keeping as-is.  I agree most readers don't need the extra words, but I don't feel like the context is 100% clear without them.

  Morehouse's post provides additional details and discusses possible
  ways to prevent future vulnerabilities stemming from the same root
  cause.

- **Replacement cycling attacks against miners:** Antoine Riard
  [posted][riard minecycle] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to

>   disclosure an additional vulnerability possible with the [replacement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  disclose an additional vulnerability possible with the [replacement
```

  cycling][topic replacement cycling] attack he originally publicly
  disclosed in 2023 (see [Newsletter #274][news274 cycle]).  In short:

  1. Bob broadcasts a transaction paying Mallory (and possibly other
     people).

  2. Mallory [pins][topic transaction pinning] Bob's transaction.

  3. Bob doesn't realize he's been pinned and bumps the fees (using
     either [RBF][topic rbf] or [CPFP][topic cpfp]).

  4. Because Bob's original transaction was pinned, his fee bump

>      doesn't propagate.  However, Mallory receives it somehow.  Steps 3
>      and 4 may be repeated multiple times using replacement cycling to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     doesn't propagate.  However, Mallory receives it somehow; she can repeat steps 3
     and 4 multiple times using replacement cycling to
```

Author: Changing, but not to active voice.  I tried the active voice version and it's too long because we have both Mallory and Bob as both actors and interactors.

     greatly increase Bob's fee.

  5. Mallory mines Bob's highest fee bump, which nobody else is trying

>      to mine because it didn't propagate.  This allows Mallory to earn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     to mine because it didn't propagate, allowing her to earn
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  Prefer to limit sentences to one appositive phrase.

     more fees than other miners.

  We don't judge the vulnerability to be a significant risk.
  Exploiting the vulnerability requires specific circumstances that
  might be rare and can result in an attacker losing money if they judge

>   network conditions poorly.  If an attacker was able to regularly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  network conditions poorly.  If an attacker could regularly
```

  exploit the vulnerability, we believe their behavior would be detected
  by community members who build and use [block monitoring
  tools][miningpool.observer].

- **Updated stats on compact block reconstruction:** following up on a
  previous thread (see [Newsletter #315][news315 cb]), developer 0xB10C
  [posted][b10c cb] to Delving Bitcoin updated stats on the frequency at
  which his Bitcoin Core nodes needed to request additional transactions

>   in order to perform [compact block][topic compact block relay]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to perform [compact block][topic compact block relay]
```

  reconstruction.  When a compact block is received, nodes must request
  any transactions in that block that they do not already have in their
  mempool (or in their _extrapool_, which is a special reserve that aims
  to help with compact block reconstruction).  This significantly slows
  down the speed of block propagation and contributes to miner
  centralization.

  0xB10C found that the frequency of requests increases significantly as
  the size of the mempool grows.  Several developers discussed possible

>   causes, with initial data seeming to indicate the missing transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  causes, with initial data indicating that the missing transactions
```

few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

FIXME:bitschmidty

## Releases and release candidates

_New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates._

FIXME:harding to update (or remove, if no releases/RCs)

## Notable code and documentation changes

_Notable recent changes in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

> - [Bitcoin Core #31376][] Miner: never create a template which exploits the timewarp bug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #31376][] Miner: never create a template that exploits the timewarp bug
```

- [Bitcoin Core #31583][] rpc: add target to getmininginfo field and show next block info

> - [Bitcoin Core #31590][] descriptors: Try pubkeys of both parities when retrieving the private keys for an xonly pubkey in a descriptor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #31590][] descriptors: Try pubkeys of both parties when retrieving the private keys for an xonly pubkey in a descriptor
```

Reviewer 2: Parity seems plausible in the context of x-only keys

  spending those HTLCs before the deadline by a [timelock][topic
  timelocks].  Most older versions of LDK put those HTLCs in a separate
  batch that it was sure to confirm before the counterparty could
  confirm a conflicting transaction, ensuring no funds could be stolen.
  For HTLCs that didn't allow funds theft, but which the counterparty
  could resolve immediately, there was a risk that the counterparty
  could cause funds to become stuck.  Morehouse writes that this can be
  fixed by "upgrading to LDK version 0.1 and replaying the sequence of
  commitment and HTLC transactions that led to the lock up."

  However, the release candidate LDK 0.1-beta changed its logic (see
  [Newsletter #335][news335 ldk3340]) and began batching all types of
  HTLCs together, which could allow an attacker to create a conflict
  with a timelocked HTLC.  If resolution of that HTLC remained stuck
  after the timelock expired, theft was possible.  Upgrading to the
  release version of LDK 0.1 also fixes this form of the vulnerability.

  Morehouse's post provides additional details and discusses possible
  ways to prevent future vulnerabilities stemming from the same root
  cause.

> - **Replacement cycling attacks against miners:** Antoine Riard

Author: Good point.  Changed title name.  I'm guessing Riard was thinking that the pinning attack already exists and can be used to get Bob to pay higher fees.  It's maybe a new insight that Miner Mallory can be the party who creates the pin and so knows to connect directly to Bob and receive a relayed transaction that nobody else will accept, allowing her to receive more money than other miners (arguably an economic attack on other miners).

However, changing the title name made me realize that I didn't do a good job of explaining the relevance of replacement cycling to this attack, so I added a sentence later in the section.

  which his Bitcoin Core nodes needed to request additional transactions
  in order to perform [compact block][topic compact block relay]
  reconstruction.  When a compact block is received, nodes must request
  any transactions in that block that they do not already have in their
  mempool (or in their _extrapool_, which is a special reserve that aims
  to help with compact block reconstruction).  This significantly slows
  down the speed of block propagation and contributes to miner
  centralization.

  0xB10C found that the frequency of requests increases significantly as
  the size of the mempool grows.  Several developers discussed possible
  causes, with initial data seeming to indicate the missing transactions
  were _orphans_---child transactions of unknown parents, which Bitcoin
  Core only keeps around briefly in case their parents arrive within a
  short time.  Improved tracking and requesting of the parents of orphan
  transactions, recently merged into Bitcoin Core (see [Newsletter
  #338][news338 orphan]), could help improve this situation.

  Developers also discussed other possible solutions.  Orphan

>   transactions can't reasonably be keep for a long time because an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  transactions can't reasonably be kept for a long time because an
```

  whether a transaction is a Lightning force close transaction.

- [Is a segwit formatted transaction with all inputs of non-witness program type valid?]({{bse}}125240)
  Pieter Wuille distinguishes between [BIP141][], that specifies the structure
  and validity around the segwit consensus changes and computation of wtxids, and [BIP144][] that
  specifies the serialization format for communicating segwit transactions.

- [P2TR Security Question]({{bse}}125334)
  Pieter Wuille quotes from [BIP341][] that specifies [taproot][topic taproot]
  to explain why a public key is directly included in a output as well as
  related considerations around quantum computing.

- [What exactly is being done today to make Bitcoin "quantum-safe"?]({{bse}}125171)
  Murch comments on the current state of quantum capabilities, recent
  [post-quantum signature schemes][topic quantum resistance], and the proposed [QuBit -
  Pay to Quantum Resistant Hash][BIPs #1670] BIP.

- [What are the harmful effects of a shorter inter-block time?]({{bse}}125318)
  Pieter Wuille highlights the advantage conveyed, as a result of block
  propogation time, to a miner that just found a block, how that advantage is

>   magnified at shorter block times, and potential effects of the advantage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  magnified with shorter block times, and the potential effects of the advantage.
```

  could achieve similar [node resource protection][policy series] goals as
  mempool policy. Antoine Poinsot points out that there are other goals of
  mempool policy beyond protecting node resources including efficient block
  template building, discouraging some transaction types, and protecting [soft
  fork][topic soft fork activation] upgrade hooks.

- [How does MuSig work in real Bitcoin scenarios?]({{bse}}125030)
  Pieter Wuille elaborates on the differences between [MuSig][topic musig]
  versions, calls out the Interactive Aggregated Signature (IAS) variant
  of MuSig1 and its interplay with [cross-input signature aggregation
  (CISA)][topic cisa], and mentions [threshold signatures][topic threshold
  signature] before answering lower level questions on the specifications.

- [How does the -blocksxor switch that obfuscates the blocks.dat files work?]({{bse}}125055)
  Vojtěch Strnad describes the `-blocksxor` option for obfuscating
  Bitcoin Core block data files on disk (see [Newsletter #316][news316 xor]).

- [How does the related key attack on Schnorr signatures work?]({{bse}}125328)
  Pieter Wuille answers that "the attack applies when the victim chooses a

>   related key, and the attacker knows the relation" and points out that related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  related key, and the attacker knows the relation" and that related
```

  preparation for a possible future soft fork that would permanently fix the
  timewarp bug.

- [Bitcoin Core #31583][] updates the `getmininginfo`, `getblock`,
  `getblockheader`, `getblockchaininfo` and `getchainstates` RPC commands to now
  return a `nBits` field (the compact representation of the block difficulty
  target) and a `target` field. In addition, `getmininginfo` adds a `next`
  object that specifies the height, `nBits`, difficulty, and target for the next
  block. To derive and obtain the target, this PR introduces the
  `DeriveTarget()` and the `GetTarget()` helper functions. These changes are
  useful for the implementation of [Stratum V2][topic pooled mining].

- [Bitcoin Core #31590][] refactors the `GetPrivKey()` method to check pubkeys
  for both parity bit values when retrieving private keys for an x-only pubkey
  in a [descriptor][topic descriptors]. Previously, if the stored pubkey didn’t
  have the correct parity bit, the private key couldn’t be retrieved and
  transactions couldn’t be signed.

- [Eclair #2982][] introduces the `lock-utxos-during-funding` configuration
  setting, allowing [liquidity advertisement][topic liquidity advertisements]

>   sellers to mitigate liquidity griefing attacks (see Newsletter [#281][news281

Author: @Gustavojfe Eclair 2982 is about a different type of liquidity griefing, although I'm **really** impressed that you searched the newsletter archives and found this old news item that really does sound related.  For context:

- The liquidity griefing described in 281 was about proposal (I think abandoned, but I'm only [20% sure](https://fatebook.io/q/was-liquidity-lock-up-in-dual-funding--cm6k6lw8e0000yvyojkvm5q65)) to ensure someone couldn't reuse the liquidity they had just sold after closing a new dual-funded channel.

- Eclair 2982 is about someone claiming they're going to open a dual-funded channel with you, so you reserve ("lock") the input(s) you plan to use so you don't accidentally use them for a different transaction.  An attacker who knows you do that, can just keep claiming they want to dual fund with you until all of your inputs are locked and now nobody honest can open a channel with you.

You got all the details right, just the reference wrong.  I'll make an edit to fix, but I wanted to explain why and to thank you again for digging into our archives for references.  Even if this one wasn't right, all the other times you've been spot on and it's very appreciated!

  griefing]) that could lock their UTXOs for extended periods. The default
  setting is true, meaning that UTXOs are locked during the funding process and
  are vulnerable. If set to false, UTXO locking is disabled and the attack can

>   be completely prevented, but this may have a negative impact on honest peers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be completely prevented, but this may harm honest peers.
```
(or maybe "hurt" or "disadvantage" instead of "harm")

Author: Reminder for me to come back to this after I correct this item's technical description.

  This PR also adds a configurable timeout mechanism that automatically aborts
  incoming channels if a peer becomes unresponsive.

- [BDK #1614][] adds support for using [compact block filters][topic compact
  block filters] as specified in [BIP158][] for downloading confirmed
  transactions. This is done by adding a BIP158 module to the `bdk_bitcoind_rpc`
  crate, along with a new `FilterIter` type that can be used to retrieve blocks

>   from a full node that contain transactions relevant to a list of script
>   pubkeys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  containing transactions relevant to a list of script
  pubkeys from a full node.
```

Author: Dropped "full node" clause entirely.  It's possible, at least in theory, to get blocks from non-full nodes.

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #339'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2025/01/31/
name: 2025-01-31-newsletter
slug: 2025-01-31-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes a vulnerability affecting older

> versions of LDK, looks at a newly disclosed aspect of vulnerability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
versions of LDK, looks at a newly disclosed aspect of a vulnerability
```

  5. Mallory mines Bob's highest fee bump, which nobody else is trying
     to mine because it didn't propagate.  This allows Mallory to earn
     more fees than other miners.

  6. Mallory can now use replacement cycling to move her transaction pin
     to another transaction and repeat the attack (possibly with a
     different victim) without allocating additional funds, making the
     attack economically efficient.

  We don't judge the vulnerability to be a significant risk.
  Exploiting the vulnerability requires specific circumstances that
  might be rare and can result in an attacker losing money if they judge
  network conditions poorly.  If an attacker did regularly
  exploit the vulnerability, we believe their behavior would be detected
  by community members who build and use [block monitoring
  tools][miningpool.observer].

- **Updated stats on compact block reconstruction:** following up on a
  previous thread (see [Newsletter #315][news315 cb]), developer 0xB10C
  [posted][b10c cb] to Delving Bitcoin updated stats on the frequency at
  which his Bitcoin Core nodes needed to request additional transactions
  to perform [compact block][topic compact block relay]

>   reconstruction.  When a nod ereceives a compact block, it must request

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  reconstruction.  When a node receives a compact block, it must request
```

>   any transactions in that block that they it does not already have in its

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  any transactions in that block that it does not already have in its
```

Also “which” instead of “that”? Unsure.

```suggestion
  any transactions in that block, which it does not already have in its
```

  mempool (or in its _extrapool_, which is a special reserve that aims
  to help with compact block reconstruction).  This significantly slows

>   down block propagation speed and contributes to miner

Reviewer 5: Nit:

```suggestion
  down block propagation and contributes to miner
```

  centralization.

  0xB10C found that the frequency of requests increases significantly as
  the size of the mempool grows.  Several developers discussed possible

>   causes, with initial data indicatating that the missing transactions

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  causes, with initial data indicating that the missing transactions
```

  were _orphans_---child transactions of unknown parents, which Bitcoin
  Core only stores briefly in case their parents arrive within a
  short time.  Improved tracking and requesting of the parents of orphan
  transactions, recently merged into Bitcoin Core (see [Newsletter
  #338][news338 orphan]), could help improve this situation.

  Developers also discussed other possible solutions.  Nodes

>   can't reasonably keep orphan transactinos for a long time because an

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  can't reasonably keep orphan transactions for a long time because an
```
